manuals/UserGuide/UserGuide.rst, before:

.. |TITLE| replace:: User's Guide
.. |DESCRIPTION| replace:: Users's Guide presents the main functionalities of |TVB|
.. |VERSION| replace:: 1.0
.. |REVISION| replace:: 0.1

.. include:: ../templates/pdf_template.rst

Overview of |TVB|
=================

|TVB| is a framework for the simulation of the dynamics of large-scale brain
networks with biologically realistic connectivity. |TVB| uses tractographic data
(DTI/DSI) to generate connectivity matrices and build cortical and subcortical
brain networks. The connectivity matrix defines the connection strengths and 
time delays via signal transmission between all network nodes. Various neural 
mass models are available in the repertoire of |TVB| and define the dynamics of 
a network node.  Together, the neural mass models at the network nodes and the 
connectivity matrix define **the Virtual Brain**. |TVB| simulates and generates 
the time courses of various forms of neural activity including Local Field 
Potentials (LFP) and firing rate, as well as brain imaging data such as 
EEG, MEG and BOLD activations as observed in fMRI. 


|TVB| is foremost a scientific simulation platform and provides all means 
necessary to generate, manipulate and visualize connectivity and network 
dynamics. In addition, |TVB| comprises a set of classical time series analysis 
tools, structural and functional connectivity analysis tools, as well as 
parameter exploration facilities by launching parallel simulations on a cluster. 
The workflow of TVB is divided in **User**, **Project**, **Simulator**, 
**Analysis**, **Stimulus** and **Conectivity**. In **User**, the user can 
manage their account and |TVB| settings. In **Project**, the individual projects 
are defined with all their data and infrastructure. In **Simulator** the 
large-scale simulation is defined and different options to view structural and 
functional data are offered in 2D, 3D, as well other representations to 
visualize results. Having multiple panels allows having a quick overview of the 
current |TVB| model parameters, simulations and results. In **Analysis** certain 
options for data and connectivity analysis are offered. In **Stimulus**, 
patterns of stimuli can be generated. And finally in **Connectivity**, the user 
can edit the connectivity matrices assisted by interactive visualization tools.

This document provides the most basic tutorial to get the new user started 
working with |TVB|, version 1.0. As |TVB| will be updated regularly, please 
check for updates on our web site: http://www.thevirtualbrain.org.


Installing the Application
==========================

The TVB software package can be used in 3 different configurations:

- on a single machine (personal usage).
  This machine will need to meet the `Application requirements`_ for both the visualization and the computation/storage part.
  Any operation launched will use resources from current machine (graphic card, CPU, disk and RAM).
  
- in a client/server configuration, where TVB is installed on a server and made accessible to an unlimited number of users.

  This configuration is recommended when you have a powerful server to be used as back-end, where TVB is running and simulation or analysis operations are to be executed.
  The server machine will not require powerful graphics, as visualization will not be done here at all. Only the computation requirements from above will need to be met by the server.
  
  The visualization can be accessed from a personal computers by a browser (via HTTP).
  A network connection needs to exist between the server where TVB is running and the computer doing the visualization and access.
  http://${SERVER-IP}:8080 is the default URL. 
  
- using a cluster (similar with server installation, but with parallelization support).
  Please note that for cluster installations, OAR is expected to be configured separately from TVB and accessible to the user for which the TVB software is launched.


To install |TVB| unzip the package and it will create a folder TVB_Distribution.


Launching the application
-------------------------

In the TVB_Distribution folder you should find a sub-folder `bin` with a number of scripts:

- tvb_start
- tvb_clean
- tvb_stop
- contributor_setup
- distribution

On Linux these scripts will have the `.sh` termination, on Mac the `.command` termination and on Windows the `.bat` termination.
We will omit the termination in this manual. For example if you are using Windows and tvb_start is mentioned
in this document then tvb_start.bat is meant.

For Mac users the `bin` folder contains an application package `tvb.app`.
To start |TVB| in your web browser double click `tvb.app`.
Please be patient, as depending on your computer resources, the startup process might take about 1-2 minutes.

For Linux and Windows users, to start |TVB| in your web-browser, run the `tvb_start` script.

To make sure that no processes will remain open after you use the application,
you should always close |TVB| by running the `tvb_stop` script.

The `tvb_clean` which will reset your TVB database and delete **all** data stored by |TVB|. Be careful!
Use this to get to a clean state as if |TVB| had just been installed.

The `distribution` script is used from a terminal to control the |TVB| distribution.
Run `distribution -h` too get help with this command.

To access the console interface, run in a terminal `distribution start COMMAND_PROFILE` or `distribution start LIBRARY_PROFILE`.
The interactive Python shell will appear. See the Shell and User Interface sections in this document for
more details on how to use the different interfaces of |TVB|.

For details on script `contributor_setup`, please read document `ContributorsManual.pdf`.


Configuring TVB
---------------

The preferred method to configure |TVB| is from the web interface. See `TVB Settings`_.

However if |TVB| is installed on a headless server then the web interface might not be available remotely.
Create a file named .tvb.configuration in the home directory of the user that will launch |TVB|.
Copy the following configuration and edit it to suit your needs. ::

    MAXIMUM_NR_OF_OPS_IN_RANGE=2000
    URL_WEB=http://127.0.0.1:8080/
    ADMINISTRATOR_EMAIL=jira.tvb@gmail.com
    MATLAB_EXECUTABLE=/usr/bin/octave
    MAXIMUM_NR_OF_THREADS=4
    WEB_SERVER_PORT=8080
    URL_MPLH5=ws://127.0.0.1:9000/
    LAST_CHECKED_CODE_VERSION=6507
    USR_DISK_SPACE=5242880
    DEPLOY_CLUSTER=False
    ADMINISTRATOR_NAME=admin
    LAST_CHECKED_FILE_VERSION=2
    URL_VALUE=sqlite:////home/tvb_user/TVB/tvb-database.db
    ADMINISTRATOR_PASSWORD=1a1dc91c907325c69271ddf0c944bc72
    SELECTED_DB=sqlite
    MAXIMUM_NR_OF_VERTICES_ON_SURFACE=300000
    MPLH5_SERVER_PORT=9000
    TVB_STORAGE=/home/tvb_user/TVB

Usually one would change the web server port and domain.
|TVB| will create a folder with project data named TVB. By default it is located in the users home directory.
You can change the TVB_STORAGE to point to a different path.

Finally run the appropriate script for your platform to launch |TVB| with the new settings.


Upgrading the Application
-------------------------

To upgrade to a new version, stop the server with `tvb_stop`, then delete the old distribution
and install the new distribution by unzipping the new TVB downloaded package.
Finally run the appropriate script for your platform to launch |TVB|.
The first run after update will migrate your projects to the new version.


Supported operating systems
---------------------------

The current |TVB| package was tested on :

Debian Squeeze and Fedora 16.
Other Linux flavors might also work as long as you have installed a glibc
version of 2.11 or higher.

Mac OS X 10.5.8 (Leopard), 10.6.8 (Snow Leopard) and 10.7.2 (Lion)
but should also run smoothly on subsequent versions.

Windows XP (x32), Windows Server 2008 (x64) and Windows 7 (x64).


Application requirements
------------------------

As |TVB| redefines what's possible in neuroscience utilizing off-the-shelf computer hardware, a few requirements are essential when using the software.

Requirements for front-end visualization:

- **High definition monitor** -
  Your monitor should be capable of displaying at least 1600 x 1000 pixels. Some views might be truncated if TVB is run on smaller monitors.

- **WebGL and WebSockets compatible browser** -
  We've tested the software on Mozilla Firefox 14+, Apple Safari 5.1+ and Google Chrome 20+.
  Using a different, less capable browser might result in some features not working or the user interface looking awkward at times.

- **WebGL-compatible graphics card** -
  The graphic card has to support OpenGL version 2.0 or higher. The operating system needs to have a proper card driver as well to expose the graphic card towards WebGL.
  This requirement only affects PCs, not (somewhat recent) Macs.


Requirements for computation/storage power, dependent on the number of parallel simulations that will be executed concurrently:

- **CPU power** -
  1 CPU core is needed for one simulation. When launching more simulations than the number of available cores, a serialization is recommended.
  This can be done by setting the "maximum number of parallel threads" (in TVB settings) to the same value as the number of cores.

- **Memory** -
  For a single simulation 8GB of RAM should be sufficient but 16GB are recommended.

- **Disk space** is also important, as simulating only 10 ms on surface level will occupy 280MB of disk space. A minimum of 50GB of space per user is a rough approximation.

- 32 bit packages will work fine, also when running on a 64 bit architecture.
  Please take note that some simulations on surface level might require more memory that 32 bit programs can address,
  at which point the TVB software will notify you about this with a "Memory Error".

- Optional **MatLab or Octave** -
  A special feature in TVB is utilizing functions from the Brain Connectivity Toolbox.
  This feature thus requires a MatLab or Octave package on your computer (installed, activated and added to your OS' global PATH variable).
  The Brain Connectivity Toolbox doesn't need to be installed or enabled separately in any way, as TVB will temporarily append it to your MatLab/Octave path.


.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. SHELL INTERFACE
.. include:: UserGuide-Shell.rst
   
.. GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE

.. include:: UserGuide-UI.rst

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. TEST CASES

.. include:: UserGuide-Tutorial.rst

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. contributed through GitHub repo by Tim Proix

.. include:: Complete_Dataset_Description.rst

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. DATA EXCHANGE

.. include:: DataExchange.rst

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. COPYRIGHT

.. include:: ../templates/copyright_notice.rst

Commit message:

Update TVB requirements and supported platforms.
git-svn-id: https://repo.thevirtualbrain.org/svn/tvb/trunk/tvb_documentation@6558 1c0e02f0-7929-43c0-8fb3-3293bf43b0d1

manuals/UserGuide/UserGuide.rst, after:

.. |TITLE| replace:: User's Guide
.. |DESCRIPTION| replace:: Users's Guide presents the main functionalities of |TVB|
.. |VERSION| replace:: 1.0
.. |REVISION| replace:: 0.1

.. include:: ../templates/pdf_template.rst

Overview of |TVB|
=================

|TVB| is a framework for the simulation of the dynamics of large-scale brain
networks with biologically realistic connectivity. |TVB| uses tractographic data
(DTI/DSI) to generate connectivity matrices and build cortical and subcortical
brain networks. The connectivity matrix defines the connection strengths and 
time delays via signal transmission between all network nodes. Various neural 
mass models are available in the repertoire of |TVB| and define the dynamics of 
a network node.  Together, the neural mass models at the network nodes and the 
connectivity matrix define **the Virtual Brain**. |TVB| simulates and generates 
the time courses of various forms of neural activity including Local Field 
Potentials (LFP) and firing rate, as well as brain imaging data such as 
EEG, MEG and BOLD activations as observed in fMRI. 


|TVB| is foremost a scientific simulation platform and provides all means 
necessary to generate, manipulate and visualize connectivity and network 
dynamics. In addition, |TVB| comprises a set of classical time series analysis 
tools, structural and functional connectivity analysis tools, as well as 
parameter exploration facilities by launching parallel simulations on a cluster. 
The workflow of TVB is divided in **User**, **Project**, **Simulator**, 
**Analysis**, **Stimulus** and **Conectivity**. In **User**, the user can 
manage their account and |TVB| settings. In **Project**, the individual projects 
are defined with all their data and infrastructure. In **Simulator** the 
large-scale simulation is defined and different options to view structural and 
functional data are offered in 2D, 3D, as well other representations to 
visualize results. Having multiple panels allows having a quick overview of the 
current |TVB| model parameters, simulations and results. In **Analysis** certain 
options for data and connectivity analysis are offered. In **Stimulus**, 
patterns of stimuli can be generated. And finally in **Connectivity**, the user 
can edit the connectivity matrices assisted by interactive visualization tools.

This document provides the most basic tutorial to get the new user started 
working with |TVB|, version 1.0. As |TVB| will be updated regularly, please 
check for updates on our web site: http://www.thevirtualbrain.org.


Installing the Application
==========================

The TVB software package can be used in 3 different configurations:

- on a single machine (personal usage).
  This machine will need to meet the `Application requirements`_ for both the visualization and the computation/storage part.
  Any operation launched will use resources from current machine (graphic card, CPU, disk and RAM).
  
- in a client/server configuration, where TVB is installed on a server and made accessible to an unlimited number of users.

  This configuration is recommended when you have a powerful server to be used as back-end, where TVB is running and simulation or analysis operations are to be executed.
  The server machine will not require powerful graphics, as visualization will not be done here at all. Only the computation requirements from above will need to be met by the server.
  
  The visualization can be accessed from a personal computers by a browser (via HTTP).
  A network connection needs to exist between the server where TVB is running and the computer doing the visualization and access.
  http://${SERVER-IP}:8080 is the default URL. 
  
- using a cluster (similar with server installation, but with parallelization support).
  Please note that for cluster installations, OAR is expected to be configured separately from TVB and accessible to the user for which the TVB software is launched.


To install |TVB| unzip the package and it will create a folder TVB_Distribution.


Launching the application
-------------------------

In the TVB_Distribution folder you should find a sub-folder `bin` with a number of scripts:

- tvb_start
- tvb_clean
- tvb_stop
- contributor_setup
- distribution

On Linux these scripts will have the `.sh` termination, on Mac the `.command` termination and on Windows the `.bat` termination.
We will omit the termination in this manual. For example if you are using Windows and tvb_start is mentioned
in this document then tvb_start.bat is meant.

For Mac users the `TVB_Distribution` folder contains an application file `tvb.app`.
To start |TVB| in your web browser double click `tvb.app`.
Please be patient, as depending on your computer resources, the startup process might take about 1-2 minutes.

For Linux and Windows users, to start |TVB| in your web-browser, run the `tvb_start` script in `TVB_Distribution\bin`.

To make sure that no processes will remain open after you use the application,
you should always close |TVB| by running the `tvb_stop` script.

The `tvb_clean` script will reset your TVB database and delete **all** data stored by |TVB|. Be careful!
Use this to get to a clean state, as if |TVB| had just been installed and never configured.

The `distribution` script is used from a terminal to control the |TVB| distribution.
Run `distribution -h` too get help with this command.

To access the console interface, run in a terminal `distribution start COMMAND_PROFILE` or `distribution start LIBRARY_PROFILE`.
The interactive Python shell will appear. See the Shell and User Interface sections in this document for
more details on how to use the different interfaces of |TVB|.

For details on script `contributor_setup`, please read document `ContributorsManual.pdf`.


Configuring TVB
---------------

The preferred method to configure |TVB| is from the web interface. See `TVB Settings`_.

However if |TVB| is installed on a headless server (no GUI), then the web interface might not be available remotely.
In order to configure TVB in a headless environment, create a file named `.tvb.configuration` in the home directory
of the current OS user which is launching |TVB|.
Copy the following content and edit it to suit your needs. ::

    MAXIMUM_NR_OF_OPS_IN_RANGE=2000
    URL_WEB=http://127.0.0.1:8080/
    ADMINISTRATOR_EMAIL=jira.tvb@gmail.com
    MATLAB_EXECUTABLE=/usr/bin/octave
    MAXIMUM_NR_OF_THREADS=4
    WEB_SERVER_PORT=8080
    URL_MPLH5=ws://127.0.0.1:9000/
    LAST_CHECKED_CODE_VERSION=6507
    USR_DISK_SPACE=5242880
    DEPLOY_CLUSTER=False
    ADMINISTRATOR_NAME=admin
    LAST_CHECKED_FILE_VERSION=2
    URL_VALUE=sqlite:////home/tvb_user/TVB/tvb-database.db
    ADMINISTRATOR_PASSWORD=1a1dc91c907325c69271ddf0c944bc72
    SELECTED_DB=sqlite
    MAXIMUM_NR_OF_VERTICES_ON_SURFACE=300000
    MPLH5_SERVER_PORT=9000
    TVB_STORAGE=/home/tvb_user/TVB

Usually one would change the web server port and domain.
|TVB| will create a folder with project data named TVB (at the path specified by line starting with `TVB_STORAGE`).
By default it is located in the users home directory.
You can change the `TVB_STORAGE` to point to a different location.

Finally run the appropriate script for your platform (as described in the previous chapter), to launch |TVB| with the new settings.


Upgrading the Application
-------------------------

To upgrade to a new version, stop the server with `tvb_stop`, then delete the old distribution
and install the new distribution by unzipping the new TVB downloaded package.
Finally run the appropriate script for your platform to launch |TVB|.
The first run after update will migrate your projects to the new version.


Supported operating systems
---------------------------

The current |TVB| package was tested on :

- Debian Squeeze and Fedora 16.
  Other Linux flavors might also work as long as you have installed a glibc version of 2.11 or higher.

- Mac OS X greater than 10.7 are supported.

- Windows XP (x32), Windows Server 2008 (x64) and Windows 7 (x64).


Application requirements
------------------------

As |TVB| redefines what's possible in neuroscience utilizing off-the-shelf computer hardware, a few requirements are essential when using the software.

Requirements for front-end visualization:

- **High definition monitor** -
  Your monitor should be capable of displaying at least 1600 x 1000 pixels. Some views might be truncated if TVB is run on smaller monitors.

- **WebGL and WebSockets compatible browser** -
  We've tested the software on Mozilla Firefox 30+, Apple Safari 7+ and Google Chrome 30+.
  Using a different, less capable browser might result in some features not working or the user interface looking awkward at times.

- **WebGL-compatible graphics card** -
  The graphic card has to support OpenGL version 2.0 or higher. The operating system needs to have a proper card driver as well to expose the graphic card towards WebGL.
  This requirement only affects PCs, not (somewhat recent) Macs.


Requirements for computation/storage power, dependent on the number of parallel simulations that will be executed concurrently:

- **CPU power** -
  1 CPU core is needed for one simulation. When launching more simulations than the number of available cores, a serialization is recommended.
  This can be done by setting the "maximum number of parallel threads" (in TVB settings) to the same value as the number of cores.

- **Memory** -
  For a single simulation 8GB of RAM should be sufficient for region level simulations, but 16GB are recommended, especially if you are to run complex simulations.

- **Disk space** is also important, as simulating only 10 ms on surface level will occupy 280MB of disk space. A minimum of 50GB of space per user is a rough approximation.

- For Linux and Mac, we are only supporting x64 architectures.
  Due to licensing and packaging, for Windows we are currently distributing an x32 package.
  Please take note that some simulations on surface level might require more memory that 32 bit programs can address,
  at which point the TVB software will notify you about this with a "Memory Error".
  So for complex operations, on Windows, you might need to install TVB from sources (see our repositories on GitHub),
  but this requires separate installation of Python x64 and all the other TVB dependencies.

- Optional **MatLab or Octave** -
  A special feature in TVB is utilizing functions from the Brain Connectivity Toolbox.
  This feature thus requires a MatLab or Octave package on your computer (installed, activated and added to your OS' global PATH variable).
  The Brain Connectivity Toolbox doesn't need to be installed or enabled separately in any way, as TVB will temporarily append it to your MatLab/Octave path.


.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. SHELL INTERFACE
.. include:: UserGuide-Shell.rst
   
.. GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE

.. include:: UserGuide-UI.rst

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. TEST CASES

.. include:: UserGuide-Tutorial.rst

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. contributed through GitHub repo by Tim Proix

.. include:: Complete_Dataset_Description.rst

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. DATA EXCHANGE

.. include:: DataExchange.rst

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

.. COPYRIGHT

.. include:: ../templates/copyright_notice.rst
