manuals/UserGuide/UserGuide-UI_Connectivity.rst, before:

Connectivity
------------

In this area you can edit both types of TVB connectivity objects:

    - long-range connectivity and,
    - local connectivity.

You can also download connectomes from the Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas.

|

    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_area.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      Preview for Connectivity Area



Long Range Connectivity
.......................

    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_large_scale.jpg
       :width: 90%
       :align: center

       Large Scale Connectivity configuration page

This page is split in two columns.

The left `View` column contains several Long Range Connectivity visualizations:

    - a 3D view of the nodes and edges
    - 2D Projections of the connectivity graph

        - Left
        - Right
        - Top

    - a MPLH5 plot of the connectivity weights matrix
    - a 3D view showing the time evolution of the connectivity matrix

The right column contains the connectivity matrix editor.

.. _connectivity_matrix_ui:

Connectivity Matrix Editor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_editor.jpg
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Preview for the Matrix Editor

The matrix editor allows you to :

  - easily edit the connectivity weights or tract lengths
  - select a subset of the available nodes
  - perform basic algebraic operations on that group; and
  - save the new version as a new connectivity matrix.

The Connectivity datatype will be available in the Simulator area.


.. hint:: 

    In the Connectivity Editor only one quadrant is displayed at a time.
    You can select which quadrant is shown by accessing the quadrant selector 
    button in the upper left corner of the matrix display.

    Assuming that the connectivity matrix is sorted such that the first half
    corresponds one single hemisphere:

    - quadrants 1 and 4 will represent the intra-hemispheric connections,
    - and quadrants 2 and 3 will be the inter-hemispheric connections. 


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_quadrants.jpg
       :width: 50%
       :align: center

       Preview for Quadrant Selection



You can create a smaller selection using three methods:

     1. Click on the `Quick-select` button and edit the list of node names.
     2. Click on the node labels in the matrix to toggle nodes.
     3. Use the node selection dropdown by clicking the `Select Nodes` button.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_quick_select.jpg
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Preview for `Quick-select` list

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_select_nodes.jpg
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Preview for `Select Nodes` list


.. |savetick| image:: icons/save_tick.png
.. |staricon| image:: icons/star_icon.png

TVB enables you to save a new `Connectivity` object by clicking on |staricon|.
This entity can be used later on in |TVB| `Simulator`.

You can save a particular selection. Click the `Select Nodes` button and the selection component will be shown.
Enter a name for the selection and click save.


The **Weights** button opens a menu to perform basic algebraic operations on
a group of edges. You can select multiple nodes from the current connectivity
(by default all nodes are selected); thus you will end up with two sets of
nodes: the set of **selected nodes** and the set of **un-selected nodes**. These two
sets of nodes, determine four categories of edges:

    - In --> In:  are only the edges connecting the nodes of the selected set. 
    - In --> Out: are the edges that connect nodes in the selected set (rows) to nodes in the unselected set (columns).
    - Out --> In: are the edges connecting nodes in the unselected set (rows) to nodes in the selected set (columns). 
    - Out --> Out: are edges connecting pair of nodes in the 'unselected set'.



.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity3d_edges_operations.jpg
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Preview for Bulk Operations on edges


.. note:: 
  Available operations are:

  - Assignation (set): assigns the given numeric value to all the edges within
    the set.
  - Addition (add): adds the new value to the current value in the connectivity 
    weights matrix.
  - Subtraction (decrease): subtracts the new value to the current value in the 
    connectivity matrix of weights.
  - Multiplication (multiply): multiplies the current value in the connectivity 
    matrix of weights by the given numeric value.
  - Division (divide): divides the current value in the connectivity matrix of weights by
    the given numeric value.


Click on the `Apply weight change` button to perform the selected operation on a group of edges.


Example: **HOW TO REMOVE INTER-HEMISPHERIC CONNECTIONS**

1. Using the `Quick select` remove all nodes from the right hemisphere.


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SelectASetOfNodes_a.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      Node selection


2. Apply the changes. The selected nodes appear in green. 


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SelectASetOfNodes_b.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      Node selection

3. Save the selection to make it easier later. 


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SaveSelection.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      Save node selection


4. Move to the third quadrant (Q3).

    The Connectivity editor will be aware of two sets of nodes: the ones in your
    selection (green nodes) and the ones that are not selected (white nodes).


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_ShowConnections.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      3D visualizer zoom-in to show the interhemispheric connections 



5. Then you can proceed to perform some operations on the edge values.

    The four categories of edges in this particular case are:

  - edges IN-IN: intrahemispheric edges from the left hemisphere.
  - edges OUT-OUT: intrahemispheric edges from the right.
  - edges IN-OUT:  interhemispheric edges in quadrant 2 (Q2)
  - edges OUT-IN:  interhemispheric edges in quadrant 3 (Q3)


6. Select operation "Set(n)" for edges **OUT-IN**, set the value to 0 and then press Apply.


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SetOutIn.jpg
        :width: 90%
        :align: center

        Set IN-OUT edges to 0


7. Repeat for edges **IN-OUT** .


    The inter-hemispheric connections are gone. Do not forget to select all the nodes again before saving your new matrix.
    To do so click the select all button in the selection dropdown.

    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_NewMatrix.jpg
        :width: 90%
        :align: center

        Select all nodes.


8. Save your new matrix 


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SaveNewConenctivity.jpg
        :width: 90%
        :align: center

        Save new matrix


9. Once you have your new matrix, you can launch the connectivity visualizers and
check that these connections are not there any more.


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_ReloadView.jpg
        :width: 90%
        :align: center

        Reload view



.. note::

    TVB is designed to handle connectivity matrices whose values are:
    
      - positive real values, meaning that there is a connection, or
      - zero values, meaning the absence of a connection

.. warning:: 

      - TVB does not handle unknowns such as NaNs or Infs.

      - If your connectivity matrix contains negative values, such as -1 values
        you should either set these values to zero or an estimated value based 
        on your research assumptions. 


|
|

Viewers
~~~~~~~

Connectivity 3D Edges
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This connectivity visualizer allows you to see the structural information as a
base model part of TVB. 

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity3d.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Preview for Connectivity Viewer 3D Edges

The 3D semi-transparent surface around the connectivity nodes, whether it is
the cortical surface or the outer-skin, is used just for giving space guidance.

You can select an individual node and right-click on it to activate the incoming
or outgoing edges. 

For each node you can choose a different color to apply to its
edges.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity3d_coloredges.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Preview for Connectivity Viewer 3D Edges - Coloring incoming / outgoing edges


|
|

Connectivity 2D Viewer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A 2D representation of the connectivity matrix nodes and edges. 

There are three main views (projections):
 
  - Left sagittal view
  - Transverse view
  - Right sagittal view

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity2d_left.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity2d_top.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity2d_right.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Preview for Connectivity 2D Viewer

|

Nodes are drawn as circles and the connections as lines.
Only the selected nodes are shown.


Visualizing Connectivity Measures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The 3D and 2D Views can be used to visualize two ConnectivityMeasure datatypes.
These measures can be the output of a BCT Analyzer.
If given, they will determine the size and colors of the nodes in the views.


You can choose these connectivity measures before launching the Large Scale Connectivity visualizer, or from the brain menu (see tip below).


To display the measures in the 3D view check the `Metrics details` checkbox.
Nodes will be displayed as colored spheres. The size of the sphere is proportional to the measure labeled `Shapes Dimensions`.
The color comes from the current color scheme and is determined by the measure labeled `Node Colors`.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity3d_metrics.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   3D view of a connectivity measure. Node size is defined
   by the Indegree. Node color is defined by node strength.


To display the measures in the 2D views click the `Show all` button.

Nodes are draws as circles, their size proportional to the measure labeled `Shapes Dimensions`.
Their color is determined by a threshold and the measure labeled `Node Colors`.
Nodes with values above the threshold will be red and those whose value are below the threshold will be green.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity2d_left_metrics.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Preview of 2D Connectivity Viewer (left lateral view). Node size is defined
   by the Indegree. Node color is defined by node strength, threshold is 40.


.. tip::

    If you wish to change: 

        - the color threshold,
        - the metrics used to define the node features,
        - the colormap used in the Connectivity Matrix Editor, or
        - the Connectivity entity

    go to the `brain` menu on the top right corner
   
   .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_context_menu.jpg
      :width: 50%
      :align: center



|
|

Matrix Overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A 2D matrix plot to have a complete overview of the initially selected weighted
connectivity matrix.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_mplh5.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Preview for Matrix Overview display


|
|

Space-Time
~~~~~~~~~~

This is a three-dimensional representation of the delayed-connectivity
structure (space-time) when combined with spatial separation and a finite
conduction speed.  The connectome, consists of the weights matrix giving the
strength and topology of the network; and the tract lengths matrix giving the
distance between pair of regions. When setting a specific conduction speed,
the distances will be translated into time delays. The space-time visualizer
disaggregate the *weights* matrix and each slice correspond to connections
that fall into a particular distance (or delay) range. the first slice is the
complete weights matrix. Click on any of the subsequent slices to see the
corresponding 2D matrix plot.


.. figure:: screenshots/connectivityspacetime_main.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Preview for the space-time display



.. figure:: screenshots/connectivityspacetime_fullmatrix.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   The first slice is the full weights matrix



.. figure:: screenshots/connectivityspacetime_slice_a.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Connections that are between 0 and 2.84 ms, for a conduction speed of 9 mm/ms



.. figure:: screenshots/connectivityspacetime_slice_b.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Connections that are between 2.84 and 5.68 ms, for a conduction speed of 9 mm/ms


Local Connectivity
..................


In this page, you can generate the spatial profile of local connectivity that 
will be used in surface-based simulations.

    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_local.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

    Local Connectivity editing page

.. |create_lc| image:: icons/action_bar_create_new_lc.png

On the lower right of the browser you will have access to different 
functionalities by clicking on:

    - `Create new Local Connectivity` button: to generate the Local Connectivity entity.

    - `View Local Connectivity` button: to launch a 3D brain visualizer displaying the spatial profile of the newly generated entity.

	.. figure:: screenshots/local_connectivity_viewer.jpg
	  :width: 70%
	  :align: center

	Local Connectivity Viewer


    - `Edit Local Connectivity` button: to go back to the main Local Connectivity editing page.


On the right column there is a display showing different estimations of the 
spatial profile based on the length of :

  - Theoretical case: is the ideal case.
  - Most probable case: resolution is based on the mean length of the edges of the surface mesh. 
  - Worst case: resolution is based on the longest edge in the surface mesh.
  - Best case: resolution is based on the shortest edge in the surface mesh.


      .. figure:: screenshots/local_connectivity_estimations.jpg
	 :width: 70%
         :align: center 

         Local connectivity profile estimations.

and the red-dotted vertical line represents the cut-off distance. 

The x-axis range is automatically set to two times the cut-off distance.


Allen Connectome Downloader
...........................

From this page you can initiate an operation which will download data from The Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas.
See http://connectivity.brain-map.org

This operation needs an internet connection and it will take many minutes to complete.
It will produce a Connectivity and a brain Volume.

Commit message:

TVB-1963 Document that the allen connectome downloader requires allen sdk to be installed
git-svn-id: https://repo.thevirtualbrain.org/svn/tvb/trunk/tvb_documentation@7881 1c0e02f0-7929-43c0-8fb3-3293bf43b0d1

manuals/UserGuide/UserGuide-UI_Connectivity.rst, after:

Connectivity
------------

In this area you can edit both types of TVB connectivity objects:

    - long-range connectivity and,
    - local connectivity.

You can also download connectomes from the Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas.
This requires AllenSDK to be installed. TVB does not package it.

|

    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_area.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      Preview for Connectivity Area



Long Range Connectivity
.......................

    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_large_scale.jpg
       :width: 90%
       :align: center

       Large Scale Connectivity configuration page

This page is split in two columns.

The left `View` column contains several Long Range Connectivity visualizations:

    - a 3D view of the nodes and edges
    - 2D Projections of the connectivity graph

        - Left
        - Right
        - Top

    - a MPLH5 plot of the connectivity weights matrix
    - a 3D view showing the time evolution of the connectivity matrix

The right column contains the connectivity matrix editor.

.. _connectivity_matrix_ui:

Connectivity Matrix Editor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_editor.jpg
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Preview for the Matrix Editor

The matrix editor allows you to :

  - easily edit the connectivity weights or tract lengths
  - select a subset of the available nodes
  - perform basic algebraic operations on that group; and
  - save the new version as a new connectivity matrix.

The Connectivity datatype will be available in the Simulator area.


.. hint:: 

    In the Connectivity Editor only one quadrant is displayed at a time.
    You can select which quadrant is shown by accessing the quadrant selector 
    button in the upper left corner of the matrix display.

    Assuming that the connectivity matrix is sorted such that the first half
    corresponds one single hemisphere:

    - quadrants 1 and 4 will represent the intra-hemispheric connections,
    - and quadrants 2 and 3 will be the inter-hemispheric connections. 


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_quadrants.jpg
       :width: 50%
       :align: center

       Preview for Quadrant Selection



You can create a smaller selection using three methods:

     1. Click on the `Quick-select` button and edit the list of node names.
     2. Click on the node labels in the matrix to toggle nodes.
     3. Use the node selection dropdown by clicking the `Select Nodes` button.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_quick_select.jpg
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Preview for `Quick-select` list

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_select_nodes.jpg
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Preview for `Select Nodes` list


.. |savetick| image:: icons/save_tick.png
.. |staricon| image:: icons/star_icon.png

TVB enables you to save a new `Connectivity` object by clicking on |staricon|.
This entity can be used later on in |TVB| `Simulator`.

You can save a particular selection. Click the `Select Nodes` button and the selection component will be shown.
Enter a name for the selection and click save.


The **Weights** button opens a menu to perform basic algebraic operations on
a group of edges. You can select multiple nodes from the current connectivity
(by default all nodes are selected); thus you will end up with two sets of
nodes: the set of **selected nodes** and the set of **un-selected nodes**. These two
sets of nodes, determine four categories of edges:

    - In --> In:  are only the edges connecting the nodes of the selected set. 
    - In --> Out: are the edges that connect nodes in the selected set (rows) to nodes in the unselected set (columns).
    - Out --> In: are the edges connecting nodes in the unselected set (rows) to nodes in the selected set (columns). 
    - Out --> Out: are edges connecting pair of nodes in the 'unselected set'.



.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity3d_edges_operations.jpg
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Preview for Bulk Operations on edges


.. note:: 
  Available operations are:

  - Assignation (set): assigns the given numeric value to all the edges within
    the set.
  - Addition (add): adds the new value to the current value in the connectivity 
    weights matrix.
  - Subtraction (decrease): subtracts the new value to the current value in the 
    connectivity matrix of weights.
  - Multiplication (multiply): multiplies the current value in the connectivity 
    matrix of weights by the given numeric value.
  - Division (divide): divides the current value in the connectivity matrix of weights by
    the given numeric value.


Click on the `Apply weight change` button to perform the selected operation on a group of edges.


Example: **HOW TO REMOVE INTER-HEMISPHERIC CONNECTIONS**

1. Using the `Quick select` remove all nodes from the right hemisphere.


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SelectASetOfNodes_a.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      Node selection


2. Apply the changes. The selected nodes appear in green. 


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SelectASetOfNodes_b.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      Node selection

3. Save the selection to make it easier later. 


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SaveSelection.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      Save node selection


4. Move to the third quadrant (Q3).

    The Connectivity editor will be aware of two sets of nodes: the ones in your
    selection (green nodes) and the ones that are not selected (white nodes).


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_ShowConnections.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

      3D visualizer zoom-in to show the interhemispheric connections 



5. Then you can proceed to perform some operations on the edge values.

    The four categories of edges in this particular case are:

  - edges IN-IN: intrahemispheric edges from the left hemisphere.
  - edges OUT-OUT: intrahemispheric edges from the right.
  - edges IN-OUT:  interhemispheric edges in quadrant 2 (Q2)
  - edges OUT-IN:  interhemispheric edges in quadrant 3 (Q3)


6. Select operation "Set(n)" for edges **OUT-IN**, set the value to 0 and then press Apply.


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SetOutIn.jpg
        :width: 90%
        :align: center

        Set IN-OUT edges to 0


7. Repeat for edges **IN-OUT** .


    The inter-hemispheric connections are gone. Do not forget to select all the nodes again before saving your new matrix.
    To do so click the select all button in the selection dropdown.

    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_NewMatrix.jpg
        :width: 90%
        :align: center

        Select all nodes.


8. Save your new matrix 


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_SaveNewConenctivity.jpg
        :width: 90%
        :align: center

        Save new matrix


9. Once you have your new matrix, you can launch the connectivity visualizers and
check that these connections are not there any more.


    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivityeditor_ReloadView.jpg
        :width: 90%
        :align: center

        Reload view



.. note::

    TVB is designed to handle connectivity matrices whose values are:
    
      - positive real values, meaning that there is a connection, or
      - zero values, meaning the absence of a connection

.. warning:: 

      - TVB does not handle unknowns such as NaNs or Infs.

      - If your connectivity matrix contains negative values, such as -1 values
        you should either set these values to zero or an estimated value based 
        on your research assumptions. 


|
|

Viewers
~~~~~~~

Connectivity 3D Edges
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This connectivity visualizer allows you to see the structural information as a
base model part of TVB. 

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity3d.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Preview for Connectivity Viewer 3D Edges

The 3D semi-transparent surface around the connectivity nodes, whether it is
the cortical surface or the outer-skin, is used just for giving space guidance.

You can select an individual node and right-click on it to activate the incoming
or outgoing edges. 

For each node you can choose a different color to apply to its
edges.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity3d_coloredges.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Preview for Connectivity Viewer 3D Edges - Coloring incoming / outgoing edges


|
|

Connectivity 2D Viewer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A 2D representation of the connectivity matrix nodes and edges. 

There are three main views (projections):
 
  - Left sagittal view
  - Transverse view
  - Right sagittal view

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity2d_left.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity2d_top.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity2d_right.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Preview for Connectivity 2D Viewer

|

Nodes are drawn as circles and the connections as lines.
Only the selected nodes are shown.


Visualizing Connectivity Measures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The 3D and 2D Views can be used to visualize two ConnectivityMeasure datatypes.
These measures can be the output of a BCT Analyzer.
If given, they will determine the size and colors of the nodes in the views.


You can choose these connectivity measures before launching the Large Scale Connectivity visualizer, or from the brain menu (see tip below).


To display the measures in the 3D view check the `Metrics details` checkbox.
Nodes will be displayed as colored spheres. The size of the sphere is proportional to the measure labeled `Shapes Dimensions`.
The color comes from the current color scheme and is determined by the measure labeled `Node Colors`.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity3d_metrics.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   3D view of a connectivity measure. Node size is defined
   by the Indegree. Node color is defined by node strength.


To display the measures in the 2D views click the `Show all` button.

Nodes are draws as circles, their size proportional to the measure labeled `Shapes Dimensions`.
Their color is determined by a threshold and the measure labeled `Node Colors`.
Nodes with values above the threshold will be red and those whose value are below the threshold will be green.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity2d_left_metrics.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Preview of 2D Connectivity Viewer (left lateral view). Node size is defined
   by the Indegree. Node color is defined by node strength, threshold is 40.


.. tip::

    If you wish to change: 

        - the color threshold,
        - the metrics used to define the node features,
        - the colormap used in the Connectivity Matrix Editor, or
        - the Connectivity entity

    go to the `brain` menu on the top right corner
   
   .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_context_menu.jpg
      :width: 50%
      :align: center



|
|

Matrix Overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A 2D matrix plot to have a complete overview of the initially selected weighted
connectivity matrix.

.. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_mplh5.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Preview for Matrix Overview display


|
|

Space-Time
~~~~~~~~~~

This is a three-dimensional representation of the delayed-connectivity
structure (space-time) when combined with spatial separation and a finite
conduction speed.  The connectome, consists of the weights matrix giving the
strength and topology of the network; and the tract lengths matrix giving the
distance between pair of regions. When setting a specific conduction speed,
the distances will be translated into time delays. The space-time visualizer
disaggregate the *weights* matrix and each slice correspond to connections
that fall into a particular distance (or delay) range. the first slice is the
complete weights matrix. Click on any of the subsequent slices to see the
corresponding 2D matrix plot.


.. figure:: screenshots/connectivityspacetime_main.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Preview for the space-time display



.. figure:: screenshots/connectivityspacetime_fullmatrix.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   The first slice is the full weights matrix



.. figure:: screenshots/connectivityspacetime_slice_a.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Connections that are between 0 and 2.84 ms, for a conduction speed of 9 mm/ms



.. figure:: screenshots/connectivityspacetime_slice_b.jpg
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   
   Connections that are between 2.84 and 5.68 ms, for a conduction speed of 9 mm/ms


Local Connectivity
..................


In this page, you can generate the spatial profile of local connectivity that 
will be used in surface-based simulations.

    .. figure:: screenshots/connectivity_local.jpg
      :width: 90%
      :align: center

    Local Connectivity editing page

.. |create_lc| image:: icons/action_bar_create_new_lc.png

On the lower right of the browser you will have access to different 
functionalities by clicking on:

    - `Create new Local Connectivity` button: to generate the Local Connectivity entity.

    - `View Local Connectivity` button: to launch a 3D brain visualizer displaying the spatial profile of the newly generated entity.

	.. figure:: screenshots/local_connectivity_viewer.jpg
	  :width: 70%
	  :align: center

	Local Connectivity Viewer


    - `Edit Local Connectivity` button: to go back to the main Local Connectivity editing page.


On the right column there is a display showing different estimations of the 
spatial profile based on the length of :

  - Theoretical case: is the ideal case.
  - Most probable case: resolution is based on the mean length of the edges of the surface mesh. 
  - Worst case: resolution is based on the longest edge in the surface mesh.
  - Best case: resolution is based on the shortest edge in the surface mesh.


      .. figure:: screenshots/local_connectivity_estimations.jpg
	 :width: 70%
         :align: center 

         Local connectivity profile estimations.

and the red-dotted vertical line represents the cut-off distance. 

The x-axis range is automatically set to two times the cut-off distance.


Allen Connectome Downloader
...........................

From this page you can initiate an operation which will download data from The Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas.
See http://connectivity.brain-map.org

This feature is available only if AllenSDK is installed. TVB does not package it.
This operation needs an internet connection and it will take many minutes to complete.
It will produce a Connectivity and a brain Volume.
