manuals/UserGuide/UserGuide-UI_Project.rst, before:


Project
-------

Projects are the way you organise data and simulations in |TVB|. They
correspond to directories where related data sets and simulation results
are stored. Information on the currently selected project is always
available by clicking on the upper left corner of the interface:

.. figure:: screenshots/project_info.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The main information about the selected project.
    

The `Project` tab provides access to the projects that you have created within
|TVB|. The second level menu in the top left corner, next to the Project number,
allows you to navigate between five main subpages, each of which is described in
more detail in the sections below:

- List of All Projects
- Basic Properties
- Operations
- Data Structure
- Saved Figures
    
|

.. figure:: screenshots/project.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The Project second level menu
    

List of All Projects
....................

This page provides a list of all the existing projects. Upon first user
registration, a default project is created for you:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/default_project.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The default Project

The list of projects includes basic information about each project:

- who owns it
- the number of completed, pending, and failed operations.

as well as providing mechanisms for:

- selecting which project is currently active.
- editing any project's properties
- direct  access to `Operations` and `Data Structure` pages for any project.

In addition to the list of existing projects, the right hand menu provides a
way to:

- Create a new project.
- Import an existing project structure (for example, Exported from a
  colleague's installation of |TVB|).


Basic Properties
................

Enables you to edit the current project's properties, you are also directed
to this page when you first create a new project:

.. figure:: screenshots/project_form.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The Project Properties page
        
.. note::

    You can also access this page for any existing project by clicking the
    edit button near a projects name on the `List of all Projects` page.
    
Fill in the form by:
  
- adding a project's name (*without spaces*)
- writing a short description about the project.


If there are other users registered in the framework, you can choose to
share the project with them by checking their respective "Visible for"
boxes.

On the right side of the browser there is the `Action Column` from where you can:

- delete the project,
- export the project or,
- save changes.

Clicking on the "X" button takes you back to the `List of All Projects` page. 

If you were creating a new project it should now be visible.

.. warning::

  Project properties cannot be edited while operations are running!


Image Archive
.............

|TVB| provides you with the possibility of saving image snapshots.

From this page you can manage all the images stored within the current working 
`Project`, as well as:

- edit figure title,
- create categories to group your images,
- search through your figure collection,
- visualize, download and delete your images.

.. note::

  Only the current project figures will be available. If you want to visualize 
  images from another project, you will have to switch to that project.


.. figure:: screenshots/project_image_archive.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The Image Archive page


.. _operations_ui:


Operations
..........

A table with the history of operations related to the currently selected
project is displayed. From this board the user can filter, view, reload or
cancel any operation:

.. figure:: screenshots/default_operations.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The operation page with default operations


Data Structure
..............

This page provides a way to navigate through the data associated with the
current project, plus Upload capability.

On the most-right area of this page, an `upload` button appears. This
launches an overlay with tabs for each type of TVB-compatible data:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/data_uploaders.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The data upload overlay
    
Currently the data-types and/or structures supported for upload are:

* CFF connectome format
* Surface GIFTI
* TimeSeries GIFTI
* NIFTI
* RegionMapping
* TVB DataType
* Sensors
* Connectivity (zip)
* Upload Surface (zip)    

Launching any uploader with success will generate you a new leaf in the Tree 
displayed centrally on this page.

The left-most area of the Data Structure page contains basic filters for the 
centrally displayed entities.
We display fixed filters (entities declared relevant / irrelevant) of free-text 
filtering (when using the input text field and then pressing Button 'Filter').
Filtering based on free-test searches into all fields of an entity, and it is case insensitive.

Data Structure page contains 2 options for viewing in the central area:

.. _tree_view_ui:

a Tree view:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/data.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The data structure of the default project -- which automatically
    loads the default structural data necessary for a simulation.
    
and a Graph view:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/data_graph.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    A graph view of the project's data-structure

The main target for the Graph view is to show you in a mixed manner both DataTypes and Operations. 
The edges that link the Graph are of type: 'Operation generated DataType' and 'DataType is input for Operation'.

When switching from the Tree display to the Graph display, the same node (if DataType) remains selected.
This way you could filter entities in the Tree display, check generic meta-data, then switch to the Graph display and see what Operation was parent for this entity.


Selecting a data node in the Tree structure causes an overlay to appear:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/data_overlay.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    A data nodes overlay
    

From this overlay, the user can:

- edit metadata
- launch `Analyzers` and `Visualizers`
- link data to other projects
- export data.


.. this is a hack needed by the online help. The Project page docs have to include the
   visualizers docs because visualizers launched from the project page live in it's context.
   The body of the only directive is emitted only when the online_help tag is defined

.. only:: online_help

    .. include:: UserGuide-UI_Simulator-Visualizers.rst

Commit message:

TVB-1890 Update project list page description.
git-svn-id: https://repo.thevirtualbrain.org/svn/tvb/trunk/tvb_documentation@7454 1c0e02f0-7929-43c0-8fb3-3293bf43b0d1

manuals/UserGuide/UserGuide-UI_Project.rst, after:


Project
-------

Projects are the way you organise data and simulations in |TVB|. They
correspond to directories where related data sets and simulation results
are stored.

Information on the currently selected project is always
available by clicking on the upper left corner of the interface:

.. figure:: screenshots/project_info.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The main information about the selected project.
    

The `Project` tab provides access to the projects that you have created within
|TVB|. The second level menu in the top left corner, next to the Project number,
allows you to navigate between five main subpages, each of which is described in
more detail in the sections below:

- List of All Projects
- Basic Properties
- Operations
- Data Structure
- Saved Figures
    
|

.. figure:: screenshots/project.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The Project second level menu
    

List of All Projects
....................

This page provides an overview of all the existing projects.
    
The star column allows you to select the currently active project.

Some columns display basic information such as the id, name and owner of a project.
The last column shows an estimated total size of a project. It is handy when you run out of disk space and want to clean up old big data.

The colored numbers represent the number of completed, in progress, pending, failed and cancelled operations.

The button columns are linking to the `Basic properties`_, `Operations`_ and `Data Structure`_ pages for the project.
Clicking any will also make that project the current one.

In addition to the list of existing projects, the right hand menu provides a
way to:

- Create a new project.
- Import an existing project structure (for example, Exported from a
  colleague's installation of |TVB|).

Upon first user registration, a default project is created for you:

.. figure:: screenshots/default_project.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The default Project


Basic Properties
................

Enables you to edit the current project's properties, you are also directed
to this page when you first create a new project:

.. figure:: screenshots/project_form.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The Project Properties page
        
.. note::

    You can also access this page for any existing project by clicking the
    edit button near a projects name on the `List of all Projects` page.
    
Fill in the form by:
  
- adding a project's name (*without spaces*)
- writing a short description about the project.


If there are other users registered in the framework, you can choose to
share the project with them by checking their respective "Visible for"
boxes.

On the right side of the browser there is the `Action Column` from where you can:

- delete the project,
- export the project or,
- save changes.

Clicking on the "X" button takes you back to the `List of All Projects` page. 

If you were creating a new project it should now be visible.

.. warning::

  Project properties cannot be edited while operations are running!


Image Archive
.............

|TVB| provides you with the possibility of saving image snapshots.

From this page you can manage all the images stored within the current working 
`Project`, as well as:

- edit figure title,
- create categories to group your images,
- search through your figure collection,
- visualize, download and delete your images.

.. note::

  Only the current project figures will be available. If you want to visualize 
  images from another project, you will have to switch to that project.


.. figure:: screenshots/project_image_archive.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The Image Archive page


.. _operations_ui:


Operations
..........

A table with the history of operations related to the currently selected
project is displayed. From this board the user can filter, view, reload or
cancel any operation:

.. figure:: screenshots/default_operations.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The operation page with default operations


Data Structure
..............

This page provides a way to navigate through the data associated with the
current project, plus Upload capability.

On the most-right area of this page, an `upload` button appears. This
launches an overlay with tabs for each type of TVB-compatible data:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/data_uploaders.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The data upload overlay
    
Currently the data-types and/or structures supported for upload are:

* CFF connectome format
* Surface GIFTI
* TimeSeries GIFTI
* NIFTI
* RegionMapping
* TVB DataType
* Sensors
* Connectivity (zip)
* Upload Surface (zip)    

Launching any uploader with success will generate you a new leaf in the Tree 
displayed centrally on this page.

The left-most area of the Data Structure page contains basic filters for the 
centrally displayed entities.
We display fixed filters (entities declared relevant / irrelevant) of free-text 
filtering (when using the input text field and then pressing Button 'Filter').
Filtering based on free-test searches into all fields of an entity, and it is case insensitive.

Data Structure page contains 2 options for viewing in the central area:

.. _tree_view_ui:

a Tree view:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/data.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    The data structure of the default project -- which automatically
    loads the default structural data necessary for a simulation.
    
and a Graph view:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/data_graph.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    A graph view of the project's data-structure

The main target for the Graph view is to show you in a mixed manner both DataTypes and Operations. 
The edges that link the Graph are of type: 'Operation generated DataType' and 'DataType is input for Operation'.

When switching from the Tree display to the Graph display, the same node (if DataType) remains selected.
This way you could filter entities in the Tree display, check generic meta-data, then switch to the Graph display and see what Operation was parent for this entity.


Selecting a data node in the Tree structure causes an overlay to appear:
    
.. figure:: screenshots/data_overlay.jpg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

    A data nodes overlay
    

From this overlay, the user can:

- edit metadata
- launch `Analyzers` and `Visualizers`
- link data to other projects
- export data.


.. this is a hack needed by the online help. The Project page docs have to include the
   visualizers docs because visualizers launched from the project page live in it's context.
   The body of the only directive is emitted only when the online_help tag is defined

.. only:: online_help

    .. include:: UserGuide-UI_Simulator-Visualizers.rst
